---
title:  "Git for version control"
date:   2016-10-25
layout: single
author_profile: true
comments: true
---
Git is a great version control tool. It allows you to keep a history of your code, sync your project online and collaborate with others.

### resource
- Online git simulator and tutorial: [git branching](http://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- git tutorial: [git tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/)


## intro 

- initiate a git repository:	
  `cd` into the directory where you want to initiate a git repository, and use `git init`

- chech status of current repository: `git status`. 
  It reports which branch you are on, what files are changed, and which files are not tracked.

- track a file:   
  If you want to keep track of the changes in `file_A`, use `git add file_A`.

- untrack a file: `git rm --cached filename`    
 see [reset and rm](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6919121/why-are-there-2-ways-to-unstage-a-file-in-git) for a discussion of the difference between `git reset` and `git rm --cached`.

- check the changes in file with last staged version: `git diff filename`   
	changes are marked with `+` or `-`

- show your commit history: `git log`




## back tracing 

- `git show`: can be used to show various objects       
	eg: `git show HEAD` ----- show most recent commit

- change file back to its  older version.   
   `git checkout HEAD filename` 	  
   change file back to its version in `HEAD`. Can replace head with other commits.

- change file to its version in `HEAD`    
  `git reset HEAD filename`        
  See a discussion of `git reset` and `git checkout`: [reset and checkout](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3639342/whats-the-difference-between-git-reset-and-git-checkout).  

- move `HEAD` to a specified commit (first 7 digits, shown in `git log`):   
   `git reset commit_id`




## git branching 
Branching of git is good for modulized work. Assume you have some intermediate product, and you are going to add another feature to it. It's good practice to open up a new branch `new_feature`, work on that branch until your new program passed all kinds tests, and then you can safely merge the `new_feature` branch back to your `master branch`.   
This way if anything horrible happens to your `new_feature` code, you can always return to your master branch without worrying that your intermediate product is also messed up.

- check which branch I'm currently on: `git branch`

-  add a new branch:  `git branch new_branch_name`

- switch branch: `git checkout branch_name` 

- merge a new branch to master branch: `git merge branch_name` 

- delete a branch: `git branch -d branch_name`  



## git remote 
With `git remote` you can freely transport your own git repository or copy others' git repository.

- clone git from `remote_repository` and put under folder `clone_name`:   
  `git clone remote_repository clone_name`   
  will automatically give the remote repository a name `origin`

- show current remotes:  `git remote -v`

- add a new remote under name `remote_name`:    
	`git remote add remote_name url`

- get most recent update from remote; saved in `origin/master` branch
	`git fetch origin`    
	If you want to move to the downloaded branch, use `git checkout -- track origin/master`

- push a branch in your repository to a remote repository:
   `git push remote_name branch_name`    
   push branch_name onto remote_name 




## Collaboration 
Git can make life easier when you are doing collaboration work with other people. You may have a shared repository in some cloud service, and each of your pull the repository to your local laptop, and work on different branches. Here's how you contribute to the online repository:

1.Fetch and merge changes from the remote

2.Create a branch to work on a new project feature

3.Develop the feature on your branch and commit your work

4.Fetch and merge from the remote again (in case new commits were made while you were working)

5.Push your branch up to the remote for review












